Now we are going to show you how making homemade pasta is really easy, what are the tricks to keep it from drying out, which is the best way to roll out the pasta dough and much more! Jump to: Ingredients Prep Time: 1 Hour | Servings: 4 200 g (1 ⅓ cups) of “00” soft wheat flour 200 g (1 ⅓ cups) of durum wheat flour (semolina flour) 4 eggs of at least 70 g (2,5 oz) each. Fresh homemade pasta usually wants 1 egg x 100 g (¾ cup) of flour Kitchen Tools and Equipment You can choose to knead by hand (as in this recipe) to make fresh Italian homemade pasta, or you can use a stand mixer (we recommend kitchenaid stand mixer). This way you save time and effort, as a good fresh pasta must be processed for a long time and with a lot of energy. For a good result of fresh pasta you need to use the spiral dough hook. Ideal for pasta, pizza and other heavy dough. It is commonly used in first and second speed. We opted for the Imperia pasta maker machine to roll fresh pasta, maybe the most famous pasta maker machine in Italy. This kitchen tool is equipped with both a wood grip handle, to roll out the dough manually, and a two speed motor attachment. If you have opted for the kitchenaid stand mixer, you can use the pasta maker attachment for kitchenaid: 3 in 1 set that includes pasta sheet roller, tagliolini cutter and tagliatelle cutter. homemade pasta 500x500 Instructions The Pasta Dough (by Hand) To make this recipe we used a flour mixture made with 50% flour "00" and 50% durum wheat flour that we find perfect both for the dough and for the cooking. That said, let's show you how to make Italian homemade pasta by hand. homemade pasta step 1 Step 1) - Place the flours on a work surface and create a hole with your hands. For those who are making homemade pasta for the first time we recommend using a bowl because the job will be easier. Split the eggs and put them in a bowl then pour the eggs into the hole. homemade pasta step 2 Step 2) - With the help of your fingers, mix the eggs with the flours, incorporating a little at a time, until everything is combined. Knead the pieces of dough together. At this point, if you are using the bowl, remove the dough and place it on the table or try this non-slip mat that sticks to the table for kneading dough. Now you have to knead and work it with your hands for about 10 minutes. Pay attention: if the dough is too soft and sticky, add flour; if it is too hard and with too much flour yet, add water. This is the hardest work but it's necessary. If you don't knead the flours with the eggs very well, the dough will be soft when cooked and not al dente as it should be. homemade pasta step 3 Step 3) - After ten minutes, make a big ball and wrap it in a cling film. Let it rest at room temperature for 15/30 minutes. The cling film is usefull not to dry out the dough and let it go crusty around the edges while rolling it. The Pasta Dough (with Stand Mixer) You can choose to knead by hand as in the steps above or you can use a stand mixer (we recommend kitchenaid stand mixer). In this way you save time and effort, as homemade pasta must be kneaded for a long time and with a lot of energy. For a good result of fresh pasta you need to use the spiral dough hook that is perfect for kneading pasta dough. It is commonly used in first and second speed. fresh fettuccine pasta recipe step 2 So pour the flour into the bowl of your stand mixer and start mixing with the spiral dough hook at speed 1. Add the eggs, one at a time, and continue to mix for 5-6 minutes until the mixture is smooth, but not compact. Now increase the speed to 2 and knead for another 5-6 minutes, until you get a ball. Turn off the machine, take the ball and knead it by hand for 1 minute. Put it back in the bowl of the mixer and knead it again for 2 minutes at speed 1. Now take the ball and wrap it in cling film, then let it rest for at least 15/30 minutes. Roll Out the Pasta Dough with a Pasta Maker homemade pasta step 4 Step 4) - First make sure that your pasta maker machine is clamped firmly to a clean surface. We opted for the Imperia pasta maker machine to roll fresh pasta dough, maybe the most famous pasta maker machine in Italy. This kitchen tool is equipped with both a wood grip handle, to roll out the dough manually, and a two speed motor attachment. That said, dust your work surface with some flour, using THE DURUM WHEAT FLOUR, that's important. Take a lump of pasta dough the size of a tennis ball and press it out flat with the palms of your hands. Keep the rest of the dough wrapped in cling film to keep it soft. homemade pasta step 5 Step 5) - Roll the lump of pasta dough through the widest setting of your pasta machine or pasta roller attachment. Remember to dust the pasta dough with durum wheat flour if you feel it's becoming sticky. homemade pasta step 6 Step 6) - Fold the pasta dough in half and then again in half. homemade pasta step 7 Step 7) -Then (again) roll the lump of pasta dough through the widest setting of the pasta machine. Repeat the process for 3 or 4 times (roll-fold-roll). You have to work the dough till it's smoother. Roll Out the Pasta Dough by Hand Take a piece of dough and with your hands make a ball, the size of a tennis ball. Flatten it with your hands to give it a disc shape. Then roll out the dough on the work surface, always well floured with the DURUM WHEAT FLOUR, with the help of a rolling pin. Start always from the center, sliding it in all directions in order to obtain a pasta sheet of uniform thickness. Keep to roll out the dough until it reaches a thickness of about 1 millimeter. For a classic pasta such as tagliatelle, tagliolini and pappardelle, roll up the pasta sheet starting from the flap facing down, without pressing. Then, with a long and sharp knife, cut the pasta into strips of 1-2 millimeters for the tagliolini, about 1 cm for tagliatelle and 1-3 cm for pappardelle. YOU MUST ALSO TRY: How to Make Homemade Ravioli: Dough, Shapes and Filling How to Make Homemade Trofie Pasta How to Make Homemade Passatelli traditional italian polenta recipe How to Make Homemade Orecchiette Pizza dough recipe Tagliatelle Bolognese Recipe How to Make Fresh Fettuccine Pasta Lasagna homemade pasta step 8
